Hello and welcome to this podcast from the BBC World Service.
Please let us know what you think and tell other people about us on social media.
Podcasts from the BBC World Service are supported by advertising.
Welcome to the English we speak with me, Neil.
And me, Fae-fe.
Our expression is famous last words.
We say this when we believe something someone says will soon be proven wrong.
Have you ever said famous last words?
Yes, I went to a party at the weekend.
I told my friend that I never forget people's names.
Famous last words.
I was so embarrassed because immediately after saying that, I called my friends new boyfriend by the wrong name.
Three times.
Yes, famous last words.
Could you give us another example in context?
I went to a restaurant the other day and ordered a curry.
The waiter warned me it was very hot.
I said I love spicy food and nothing's too hot for me.
Famous last words.
What happened was it too spicy for you?
Yes, I couldn't even finish one mouthful.
I was sweating and nearly crying.
It was so spicy.
Let's hear some more examples of this expression.
My grandfather says he never cries when he watches sad films.
Famous last words.
We watched a very sad film on the weekend and he cried a lot.
I said my cricket team would win the championship this year.
Famous last words. We finished last.
Lay said he didn't need to study for his exam.
Famous last words. He failed in the end.
You're listening to the English we speak from BBC Learning English and we're learning the
expression, Famous last words.
Which is said when someone says something that they believe will happen,
only to be proven wrong.
Yes, we often say it when we think it will be quite embarrassing for the person
when their statement is shown to be wrong.
Like for example, when I told you I was brilliant at my favorite board game,
and then you beat me easily.
Really embarrassing.
Yes, and we sometimes say it to ourselves to laugh at something we have said previously, don't we?
That's right. It's a form of laughing at ourselves about something we believed or predicted,
and then realize we're embarrassingly wrong.
Like when I said England would win the football world cup.
Famous last words. Do you think they'll win the next world cup?
Of course, definitely.
However, those could be Famous last words.
Bye. Bye.
